
Overview

The Database Evaluator Project was designed for small to medium companies who do not have that much funds to hire a full time administrator to evaluate the integrity of their SQL Server Databases. It is composed of a: a) Client Application that produces a file containing information about the user’s SQL Server parameters, b) Product Website where the file generated by the Client Application is uploaded for evaluation, c) Database Evaluator which produces an evaluation report from the user’s parameter file.

----

Background

Secure and efficient database implementation following best practice is one of the challenges for organizations and database administrators. Also, evaluating SQL Server configurations is a time consuming process and involves a lot of manual labor. Furthermore, it is very difficult for database administrators to check and create an inventory of all database parameters especially for large environments. 

With the stated challenges, the group created a database evaluator tool that diagnoses and checks the basic implementation parameters of SQL Server Instances and Databases. The product created is targeted for SQL Server Versions 2008 and 2012.

----

Components of the Project

The project involved the creation of 3 applications working hand in hand to deliver a SQL Server Evaluation report to the user.

Client Application

Client Application gathers all the SQL Parameters from a SQL Server instance chosen by the user. The data gathered is put into a dump file which is encrypted for security purposes.

Product Website

This is where a user can upload the dump files produced by the Client Application.

Database Evaluator

The Database Evaluator itself which the Project Team runs to do the evaluation for them. This application decrypts the dump file and produces an evaluation report based on the parameter values in the dump file.

-----

Methodology

The team followed the DSDM methodology to build the project to completion. It first involved looking into the tool requirements and estimating if the project can be completed on time. Then after planning, the applications involved were developed through a number of iterations. In the final phases, the applications were comprehensively tested by the Test Manager and all bugs were logged and fixed.

------

Challenges

At the start, the Project team did not have a very good progress control.
The project was occasionally behind the planned schedule and a lot of changes were made on the documents needed. However, through the effort of all team members, we caught the schedule on the nick of time.


-----

Conclusion

Although the project team had a lot of issues in the development process, this project was successful. In the project, we followed the DSDM development methodology chosen for the project to develop the project plan and carry out all activities. Ultimately the deliverables were completed on the requirement document. 

----

Project Team

Hardik

Worked with Web Developer and C# Developer to handle the database evaluation guidelines and the database queries.

Kwinno

Developed a website that the customers can download the client application and upload dump files.

Patrick

Developed the client application and database evaluator. Worked with Web Developer and Database Specialist to integrate website, client application and database.

Changming

Monitored project progress. Provided supportive reports of the project.
Planned, deployed and managed the testing effort for any given engagement/release.
